Project Overview: This project is a simplified, GUI version of the classic Scrabble game. It allows two to four players to play a basic version of the game through a JFrame. Players can take turns drawing letter tiles, forming valid words, and placing them on a 15x15 board. The game's dictionary validates words, and the player scores are updated based on the values of the tiles used. An assumption was made about the blank tile. When a blank tile is used it is assigned the point value of the letter that it is assigned to. This point value is then added to the player's total points for placing that word. It is also assumed that only 1 blank tile can be used per play (i.e. a maximum of 1 blank tile can be used when choosing a word to place on the board). It is also assumed that when a user would like to customize the placement of premium squares, they can do so by editing the premiumSquaresXML.txt file.

How to Play: Ensure that IntelliJ is installed on your computer. Download all files provided in the repository, ensuring that the dictionary file (scrabble_dictionary.txt) and the custom premium squares file (premiumSquaresXML.txt) is in the same directory as the code. Run the program by opening the source code on IntelliJ, then navigate to the ScrabbleModelViewFrame class, and click the "Run" button. You will be asked how many players will play and if you would like any AI players. A window should then open that displays an empty Scrabble board and the list of the player's tiles. To place a word on the board, you must click on the players tile and form a valid word. The word that you will be placing can be seen in the label above the player's tiles. To choose the placement of the word click on any cell (on the Scrabble board) that will act as the starting cell for the word (therefore you must only click on one cell). The orientation of the word can be choosen from the "Horizontal" or "Vertical" buttons in the window. All information will also be reflected in the labels. If a letter that is already on the board is being used, ensure to click that cell (on the Scrabble board) when the letter is needed. This change will also be reflected in the label. When this is done the position of the word (row and column) will also be updated. If the letter on the board is not the first letter of the word being placed you must ensure to click on another cell of the board to change the word's starting position appropriately. Please note that only one letter from the board may be used when forming a new word. Finally, to place the word on the board press the 'Place Word' button. For AI players, you also need to click the 'Place Word' button, but the AI words will be played automatically. Each player will take turns drawing tiles and forming words that will be placed on the board. The board will be updated after each valid word placement, and the corresponding scores will be displayed. To save the game, navigate to File in the menu bar and click on Save Game. You will be prompted to enter a file name in the form (fileName.txt). To load a game start a new game and choose the same number of players as the game you want to load. Navigate to the menu bar and click Load Game. You will be prompted to enter an existing file name in the form (fileName.txt).

Current Deliverable: Milestone 4 Next Deliverables: Milestone 5 (Bonus)

Authors: Aqsa Atif, Lujain Jdue, Yomna Ibrahim, Basma Mohammed

Changes that were made Since the Last Deliverable:

Known Issues: 

Roadmap Ahead: Scrabble game is complete. Potential additional features and enhancement could be added. 
